With the capability of examining biological processes at the metabolic level, [Positron Emission Tomography](./Positron Emission Tomography) (PET) is a powerful medical imaging tool used for the early diagnosis of cancer as well as the assessment of a wide range of cardiovascular, neurological and metabolic disorders. Despite this versatility, South Africa only has 21 PET scanners available for a population of over 64 million - a far cry from the 2 per million people recommended by the World Health Organization. Of those, only 5 are in the state sector, which is responsible for treating 82% of potential patients, most of whom lack reliable access to relevant medical facilities. The primary reason for this undersupply of PET scanners is their prohibitively high cost of manufacturing, a major contributor of which is the monolithic crystal scintillator materials used in the PET detector modules. In the PET imaging procedure, the patient is injected with a positron-emitting radiotracer. Here, the choice of ligand species used dictates which tissues accumulate higher concentrations of the radiotracer. Positrons emitted by the radiotracer annihilate with electrons in the target tissue, producing two back-to-back gamma rays of 511 keV. A simultaneous detection of both gamma rays on opposite sides of the patient provides a line-of-response of potential locations of the initial electron-positron annihilation event. Generating a point field of annihilation events using the intersection of multiple lines-of-response results in a three-dimensional image corresponding to gamma ray activity that reveals structures in the target tissue. 
# Aim
The aim of this project is to develop a cost-effective alternative scintillator material as part of a broader project to design a low-cost PET detector prototype. That means there is a secondary aim to develop an efficient yet effective fabrication process to manufacture pixels using this material to be used in the prototype scanner. Details of the specific characteristics required can be found in [[Scintillator Design Considerations]]. However before discussing them in detail, it is important to formalize the problem at hand.
# Problem Statement
Fabricating a material that satisfies the unique requirements of a PET detector pixel is no trivial task, as is evident in the high cost of manufacturing for the monolithic crystals that are the current industry standard. Nevertheless, the development of nanocomposite scintillator materials has garnered substantial interest as a potential solution to this problem. By embedding trace amounts of high atomic number scintillating nanoparticles in a much cheaper host matrix, nanocomposites promise to meet the strict scintillation requirements at a substantially lower cost. However, these materials are susceptible to high rates of self-absorption caused by small nanoparticle Stoke's shift and scintillation scattering due to agglomeration during synthesis. Both of these effects are detrimental to the technical [[Nomenclature#Light Yield (LY)|light yield]] and hinder detector efficiency. While fabrication methods exist to mitigate these factors, they drastically increase the complexity (and hence the cost) of manufacturing. Consequently, nanocomposite scintillators have not yet demonstrated practical relevance in real-world applications such as low-cost PET.
# Hypothesis
Developing a functional nanocomposite scintillator pixels for low-cost PET requires a holistic approach when it comes to designing a cost-effective manufacturing process. Both the strategic selection of nanoparticle, surfactant and polymer systems, and the careful consideration of efficient pixel fabrication methods are required. Controlling nanoparticle size is expected to tune the emission wavelength to match the peak quantum efficiency of the SiPM, potentially eliminating the need for secondary wavelength shifters that contribute to self-absorption while maintaining fast scintillation response times. Bifunctional capping agents with surface chemistry compatible with both nanoparticle and polymer systems enhance light yield by preventing nanoparticle agglomeration and optimizing dispersion in the matrix. Curing the resulting suspension in suitable moulds with optimal surface smoothness should simplify the pixel fabrication process by eliminating subsequent shaping and polishing procedures.
# Key Questions
- Does the replacement of wavelength shifters with tuneable nanoparticles improve technical light yield?
- What combination of bifunctional ligand and polymer maximizes nanoparticle dispersion?
- To what extent does mould surface smoothness impact pixel light yield?
- Can effective nanocomposite pixels be manufactured at a lower cost than commercially available alternatives?

So far, this remains to be seen.