The following list of relevant metrics is found at the end of ***Bright Innovations*** review.
# Stopping Power
- The efficiency with which a material absorbs ionizing radiation of a specific type and energy.
- Enhanced by increasing atomic number (Z)
# Light Yield
- The number of scintillation photons emitted as a direct result of the energy of incident radiation
- **Physical LY**  is intrinsic to the material and is the number of photons generated by the material.
- **Technical LY** is the number of photons that make it out of the material, determined by the efficiency of light transport post-scintillation. It is deteriorated by self-absorption, scattering and internal reflection.
# Rise Time 
- Characteristic time defining leading each of a scintillation pulse.
- Shaped by excitation dynamics associated with transfer to emission states.
# Decay Time
- Characteristic time(s) of one (or more) scintillation components.
- Depends on kinetics of charge carrier transport to scintillating centers and the internal luminescence of such centers.
- Affects distinguishability between individual pulses and ultimately detector time resolution
# Time Resolution
- The precision with which the exact instant of radiation event detection can be identified.
- Influenced by both the rise and decay times, and the light yield - approximately given by $$ R \approx \sqrt{\frac{\tau_r\cdot\tau_d}{LY}}$$
- Faster response times and higher LYs are advantageous for good time resolution
# Coincidence Time Resolution (CTR)
- The time resolution of two detectors when detecting simultaneous scintillation events.
# Energy Resolution
- Full-width half maximum of energy peak divided by the energy associated with that peak. 
## Photoelectric cross section
- The efficiency of the photoelectric interaction in a material.
- Dependent on type and energy of incident radiation, as well as the intrinsic properties of the material. 
# Transmittance
- The relative intensity of light leaving a material with respect to the incident intensity $$T=\frac{I_{out}}{I_{in}}$$
- Usually given as a function of wavelength.
# Absorbance
- The inverse of [transmittance](#transmittance) - literally $$A=T^{-1}$$
- Also usually given as a function of wavelength.
# Stokes shift
- The difference between excitation and emission wavelength.
# Self-absorption
- The extent to which a material re-absorbs the photons it emits.
# SiPM
- Silicon Photomultiplier used to generate an electronic signal from incident photons. 
# Matrix
%% To do %%
# Wavelength shifter
%% To do %%
## FRET
- Fluorescent (Forster) Resonant Energy Transfer
- Radiative transfer of energy from higher to lower energy (frequency) photon emission.
## DET
- Dexter Energy Transfer
- Non-radiative transfer of energy from gamma interaction centers to scintillation centers, usually via a photoelectron or phonons.