The primary challenge with PET scanner operation is the detection of those 511 keV gamma rays. Photons are typically  detected via some form of photomultiplier that converts electromagnetic waves into a coherent electronic signal. However, ionizing radiation of the kind used in PET is too energetic to effectively interact with the photomultiplier, typically requiring a few centimetres of solid lead to effectively stop 99% of 511 keV gamma rays. To solve this problem, a scintillating material capable of emitting visible photons under gamma ray excitation is coupled to the photomultiplier, effectively converting the undetectable gamma photon into a cascade of lower energy photons in the visible spectrum that can be detected. Such a material must be dense enough to reliably interact with gamma rays, yet transparent enough to allow scintillation photons to reach the photomultiplier. 

The engineering of low-cost scintillator materials is essentially a design problem, with a seemingly infinite number of solutions. It is therefore imperative to define a reasonable boundary for this problem by defining a set of requirements, constraints and criteria by which potential candidate solutions may be assessed. Defining this boundary has the added purpose of introducing key characterization techniques used to evaluate scintillator effectiveness.
## Requirements, Constraints and Criteria
An effective scintillator material must first and foremost have a high [[stopping power]] for the 511 *keV* gamma ray products of electron-positron annihilation events. For optimal [[energy resolution]], the [[photoelectric]] cross section of 511 *keV* gamma ray interaction should be high enough that a [[photopeak]] is clearly distinguishable in the [[energy spectrum]] of the scintillator. However, since this is not strictly necessary for the identification of coincident gamma interaction pairs, this requirement may be relaxed if photoelectric interactions are found to be infeasible. Energy resolution is therefore deemed to be one of the key criteria used to evaluate scintillator candidates, but is not included as a strict requirement. That being said, the material *must* exhibit a sufficiently high [[Compton scattering]] cross section to reliably scintillate under gamma irradiation. 

Besides photon production from gamma ray interactions, an effective scintillator must allow the majority of scintillation photons to leave the bulk material to be detected by external photomultiplier components. Photons that are re-absorbed by the bulk material are detrimental to the performance of a PET detector module, as they do not contribute to the electronic detector signal used in coincident event detection and post-processing. Thus, the [[light yield]] of a scintillator is another key metric used to evaluate effectiveness. As with energy resolution, this metric may be considered a criterion in some contexts as it is a characteristic that can be optimized. However, it is a strict requirement that a sufficient proportion of scintillation photons leave the bulk material to trigger the desired response of the external photomultiplier detector. In order to reduce scintillation self-absorption, scintillation centers should have a *large* [[Stoke's shift]], and must not sinter or aggregate, but should rather be uniformly dispersed in the bulk matrix. Secondary [[wavelength shifters]] are often used to amplify the inherent Stoke's shift, thereby reducing self-absorption. 

On the subject of external scintillation detectors, the [[Silicon Photomultiplier]]s (SiPM) used to convert scintillation photons into an electronic signal have a [[quantum efficiency]] that is highly dependent on the wavelength of incident light. The SiPMs used in the proposed PET detector module effectively constrains the emission wavelength of the nanocomposite scintillator to between 325 - 570 nm, with peak efficiency at 420 nm. Again, this constraint can be optimized, with emission wavelengths closer to the peak efficiency being preferred. 

One of the primary motivations for incorporating scintillating quantum dots into scintillating materials is the resulting enhancements in scintillation response times. Short rise- and decay-times are beneficial for sharply defined scintillation response signals, which improves the overall [[coincidence time resolution]] of a detector module. Thus, a fast scintillation response is a criterion that should be optimized, but is not a strict requirement. 

The final constraint is that of the physical dimensions of the detector module. The SiPMs used have an active surface area of 3x3mm$^2$. There is not necessarily a constraint on the length of pixels, it is important to keep in mind that longer pixels typically exhibit poorer light yield, while shorter pixels typically have reduced stopping power. To reliably stop 511keV gamma rays, pixels should typically be in the range of 10-20 mm in length. It may turn out to be a balancing act to find the ideal pixel length, but this may be an unnecessary detour. It is important that any fabricated pixels have the same physical dimensions for valid comparison.